# Contributing | SDOW

Thank you for contributing to Six Degrees of Wikipedia!

## Local Setup

### Initial Setup

The necessary tools and project dependencies can be installed using
[`pip`](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip). Most recent versions of Python ship with `pip`. If your
development environment does not already have it, use a software package manager such as `apt-get`
or `brew` to download and install it. Alternatively, you may also follow the
[official `pip` installation guide](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/).

Once `pip` is installed, run the following commands from the command line to get your local
environment set up:

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:jwngr/sdow.git
$ cd sdow                          # Go to the sdow/ directory
$ pip install -r requirements.txt  # Install additional tools and dependencies
```

### Linting

[`pylint`](https://pylint.org/) is used to verify source code format, and enforce other Python
programming best practices. There is a `pylint` configuration file ([`.pylintrc`](../.pylintrc)) at
the root of this repository. This enables you to invoke `pylint` directly from the command line:

```
$ pylint breadth_first_search
```

However, it is recommended that you use the [`lint.sh`](../lint.sh) bash script to invoke `pylint`.
This script runs the linter on both the source and test modules. It suppresses some of the noisy
warnings generated when running `pylint` on test code. Note that by default, `lint.sh` only
validates locally modified source files. To validate all source files, pass `all` as an argument:

```
$ ./lint.sh      # Lint locally modified source files
$ ./lint.sh all  # Lint all source files
```

Details on how to interpret `pylint` errors are available
[here](https://pylint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/output.html).

The configuration files suppresses the verbose reports usually generated by `pylint`, and only
outputs the detected issues. If you wish to obtain a comprehensive report, run `pylint` from
command-line with the `-r` flag.

```
$ pylint -r yes breadth_first_search
```

### Unit Testing

[`pytest`](http://doc.pytest.org/en/latest/) is used for writing and executing unit tests. All
files containing test code are located in the `tests/` directory. Simply launch `pytest` from the
root of the repository, or from within the `tests/` directory to execute all tests:

```
$ pytest
```

Refer to the [`pytest` usage and invocations guide](http://doc.pytest.org/en/latest/usage.html)
to learn how to run a subset of all test cases.

You can also get a code coverage report by launching `pytest` as follows:

```
$ pytest --cov=breadth_first_search --cov=tests
```

### Repo Organization

Here are some highlights of the directory structure and notable source files

* `breadth_first_search/` - Source directory for the `breadth_first_search` module.
* `database/` - Scripts used to generate a new SQLite file from a Wikipedia dump.
* `tests/` - Unit tests.
* `.github/` - Contribution instructions as well as issue and pull request templates.
* `lint.sh` - Runs `pylint` to check for code quality.
* `.pylintrc` - Default configuration for `pylint`.
* `requirements.txt` - Requirements specification for installing project dependencies via `pip`.
